README.md, before:

platereading
============

r script for reading plates off a bioanalyser to QTL output.
Plates are fit to the buchanan curve by nls (there will be bad fits) and the parameters output for further analysis.

Takes input of a directory of directories of reads. The main directory must have one directory, labelled "plate xx", for each run. These directories must contain the .csv files given by the bioanalyser software, labelled xxx.csv, where xxx is the time in hours the reading was taken.
Additionally, the root directory must contain a "strainlist.csv" which has run, column, strain and temperature columns.

output is as .csv - the batchplates.R give "grouped.csv" which has all data grouped by line. This file is then displayed by the shiny app. Batchplates.R is an older version and will be deprecated once the newer version is integrated into the shiny app
batchplates.Rmd gives the same output as "outputfits.csv", and "grouped.csv" finds means and sds based on a given residual cutoff.

The shiny app allows visualisation of data based on residual cutoffs, and plots of individual fits. Its input is the outputfits.csv file generated by batchplates.Rmd 

usage:
Run the batchplates.Rmd commands using Rstudio. When prompted, choose the directory which contains your files (or the example). Once the files outputfits.csv and grouped.csv are created, run the shiny app.
runApp("shiny") from the directory containing the shiny folder. Again choose the directory which contains your data.

todo:
*Better integration of the batchplates.Rmd into shiny
*More intelligent handling of bad fits
*residuals based on number of time points
*better handling of different data directories
*allowing different temperatures

Commit message:

update to shiny
shiny now uses sensible functions
shiny is now standalone
shiny can now output the files it uses

README.md, after:

#platereading
============

r script for reading plates off a bioanalyser to give curve parameters as an output.
Plates are fit to the buchanan curve by nls (there will be bad fits) and the parameters output for further analysis.

Takes input of a directory of directories of reads. The main directory must have one directory, labelled "plate xx", for each run. These directories must contain the .csv files given by the bioanalyser software, labelled xxx.csv, where xxx is the time in hours the reading was taken.
Additionally, the root directory must contain a "strainlist.csv" which has run, column, strain and temperature columns.

The shiny app allows visualisation of data based on residual cutoffs, and plots of individual fits. It is independant of the other files - they contain functions for running individual parts of the analysis.
Two .csvs are generated by the shiny app - grouped.csv, a file with means and sds of each parameter, based on a cutoff residual of 0.1. The other is outputfits.csv, which has one line for each well.

usage:
Run the shiny app. runApp("shiny") from the directory containing the shiny folder. Choose the directory which contains your data. If you already have a outputfits.csv (ie you corrected it) put it in the folder and it will not create a new one


##todo:
* More intelligent handling of bad fits
* residuals based on number of time points
